♪ [music] ♪
With React Router 4, there is two main
ways that you can actually change the
page. And React Router 4 have sort of
taken this whole declarative route,
which means that everything that you want
to do is done via a component.
So, what you could do is you could render
out a redirect component.
You just import that from React Router.
And you can, just say,
to equals somewhere else. So, I could go
into my render method here and say,
if the store has been set, like I could
set it in here and then redirect it.
Otherwise, there is still an imperative
API, which will allow you to transition
from one page to another.
So, if you're looking for...you're like,
"I don't actually want a component.
I want a function that I can run," and
that will actually change the page.
So, in our case, I think it makes more
sense to use the imperative API,
just because we already have this
goToStore function where we're pulling
up the value as well as changing things on
over. So, we won't be using the redirect
component...and that could be handy in a
lot of use cases. We are going to be
using the imperative API, which is
.transitionTo. So, the way that we do
that is, we first need
access to the router.
And you might be asking, "Hmm, like how do
I actually access the router?" If we look
at our index.js, here's the browser
router, and do we, like,
import it again, and is there a method on
there? Not exactly. Because this browser
router is the parent of absolutely
everything in our application,
it actually is possible to surface React
Router at any component down through it.
So, if we take a look at our dev tools
here, we go to React, we look for our
StorePicker component, we click on it,
and... I don't see. There's,
like, some params here, and there's, like,
a location, but there's no
information...there's no method here that
allows me to change the page.
And really, if you look at my page here,
I want to change the page.
So, what we need to do is surface the
router, and we want to make it available
to this component. And the way that we do
that is with something called "context" in
React. So, React has "props" and "state,"
and 99% of the time,
you're going to be either using state to
hold your data...that's our next
video...or you're going to be using props
to pass data from one component,
a parent, down to a child component.
However, there is sort of this third thing
that's called context. And what context
allows you to do is declare something at
the top level, and it will be made
available to anybody at a lower level.
Now, that may seem tempting to everyone,
because they think, "Oh,
that's easy. I'll just put everything on
the top level, and then it's available
globally." And React really doesn't want
you to do things globally,
because they want you to make nice, small
components that can be modular and moved
around throughout your app.
So, rather than relying on a global state
for your application,
they make you use state and individual
components. Again, we'll talk about that
in the next video, if you're a little bit
confused by that. However,
there are some things that need to be
top-level and passed down to every single
one, and a router is a great example for
that. It needs to be passed down from the
parent all the way down. So, how do we
actually access it? Well,
React makes it a little bit tough to
actually do it, because, like,
you need to know that you actually want to
use context. So, they're not just going to
make it easy for anyone to use. Context,
otherwise, it'll start to form some bad
habits.
The way that we surface our router is, we
go down here, we say,
StorePicker, that's our
component....contextTypes equals,
and that's going to be an object. So, if
we set some context types on here, in our
case, we want the router, and we will set
it to react.proptypes.object. And we're
going to learn what prop types are in a
future video. But what that will then do
is tell React that the StorePicker
component expects something called a
router, and React will say, "Okay, I'll
make this router available to you."
So, give that a save now, and watch as
this refreshes. I'm going to search for my
StorePicker component again, and oh, all
of a sudden, this thing called context
pops up. And open it up, there's our
router. Now, there's not a whole lot of
different methods on here. That's because
almost everything in React Router is done
with a component. But there is this one
called transitionTo, and that's the
actual method that we need. So, we'll go
into this. Right below this comment,
we'll say, this, because this is the
actual component, .context.router,
because that's the thing. And then the
method we want is called transitionTo.
So let's say, transitionTo. And we want
to transition to...well,
we set it right here, right?
store/...and instead of saying,
storeId, how do we actually get this
value? Well, it's right here,
this.storeInput.value. So maybe we'll
pop that into a variable,
and we'll console log, say, "Going to
storeId," and then we'll also pop the
storeID right into there. And that should
just transition us from one to another.
So, give that a save. Quaint repulsive
halves, visit store, aha,
awesome. Our URL has changed. One really
cool thing about React is that,
since it's all client-side, it uses
something called HTML5 pushState,
which you will notice that the actual page
doesn't reload itself.
So, I'm right here. I click "visit store."
It will actually change the URL of your
URL bar, but it actually doesn't refresh
your actual browser. And that's why it's
so fast for you to go from one URL to
another, because all of the HTML,
CSS, JavaScript, all of that stuff is
already loaded on the page.
So,  this.context.router.transitionTo.
Pretty straightforward,
just need to know that you need to surface
the router from the parent with a thing
called contextTypes.